Phase 0: (project setup /init)
    using uv 
    creating project dir

    

Phase 1: (dataset)
    EDA
    Feature Engineering (if needed)
    dataset splitting

    findings:
        output class imbalance
        
    new findings:

       
        PAYMENT_RATIO feature in FE

        can i use robust sccaler on all columns? or a mix of log transformation + robust 
        scaler


        



        Taiwan’s April–May tax season increases credit card defaults, 
        prompting banks to predict and manage at-risk customers.

         person's past behavior (payment history, utilization rate) is 
         always a vastly superior predictor of future default than their 
         demographics. assign them very low feature importance.

        If Payment Amounts  is higher than the bill amount, it means they paid 
        off past debt. If it's lower, they are carrying a balance or falling 
        behind. I SEE HIGH CHANCE OF DOING FEATURE ENGINNERING BY
        COMAPRING THESE TWO VALUES OVER EACH MONTH, AND COMING UP WITH A METRIC 

        Age Distribution: Plot age. You might notice very few defaults among the 
        youngest (<20) and oldest (>60) clients, with the peak risk in the 25–40 range.
    
    done:

         drop gender and marriage as it often show surprisingly little predictive power, 
        while education has a slight trend

        education vs default ko plot analyse garni, if necessary drop it too!!!

         person's past behavior (payment history, utilization rate) is 
         always a vastly superior predictor of future default than their 
         demographics. assign them very low feature importance.     

Phase 2: (model building) (using pytorch)
    model architecture design (ensembling, bagging)


    findings:

        Handling Imbalance in PyTorch: When you build your MLP, you should 
        pass a weight tensor to the CrossEntropyLoss function to penalize the 
        model more heavily for misclassifying the minority class (the defaults).



Phase 3: (model initialization)
    different weight initialization strategies and optimizers
    regularization techniques such as Dropout, Batch Normalization, Early Stopping, and Weight Decay

Phase 4: (hyperparameter tuning)
    using optuna or some lightweight library
    perfoming tuning on multiple models

Phase 5: (mlfow)
    exporting the metrics,params, artifcats, models etc. to mlfow

Phase 6: (evaluation)
    evaluating the model on classification metrics


    findings:

    The Trap: If you use Accuracy as your metric, a dumb model that just 
    predicts "No Default" every time will be 78% accurate, but it will be 
    completely useless to the bank

    Metrics: You must evaluate your PyTorch model using Precision, Recall, 
    F1-Score, and ROC-AUC / PR-AUC



Phase 7: (model serving)
    creating an api service using FastAPI that serves the API on appropriate format (serialization)
    think of the use of pydantic for data validation too

Phase 8: (frontend)
    using streamlit to fetch the results from the API and display the results